# Baby-monitoring
The baby monitoring system is used to take care of the baby in some necessary conditions when the parents are out for work or may be present in the home but sometimes they may be not able to take care of the baby. This will be helpful in this cases. This is invented to detect every aspect the baby is doing. The baby monitoring system will take guide of the baby by detecting all the activities like the baby crying, urination, a camera for watching the movements of the baby
This project presents a baby monitoring system for busy parents so that they can ensure the proper care and safety of their babies. This system can detect the baby's motion and sound; especially crying and video output of baby's present position can be displayed on a display monitor so that the mother or another responsible person can watch the baby while away from him or her. This baby monitoring system is capable of detecting motion and crying condition of the baby automatically. The Raspberry Pi B+ module is used to make the total control system of the hardware, condenser MIC is used to detect baby's crying, PIR motion sensor is used to detect baby's movement and Pi camera is used to capture the baby's motion. A display is used to have video output of sleeping baby. Finally, the developed hardware is tested to analysis the capability of detecting the motion and crying sound of baby as well as the video output. This proposed system can provide an easier and convenient way for busy parents in terms of taking care of their babies.
It is an innovative, smart & protective Cradle System to nurture an infant in an efficient way. This system considers all the minute details required for the care & protection of the Baby in the cradle. The design of smartness & innovation comes with the use of technologies/methodologies which include Internet Of Things (IOT) (Modules like Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Humidity & Temperature sensing), Swing Automation, Cry Detecting Mechanism, Live Video Surveillance, Cloud Computing (Data Storage) & User Friendly Android Mobile Application (for User Controls). 
In order to detect each & every activity of Baby, different Sensors/Modules are attached to the Cradle: Humidity & Temperature Sensing Module for detection of Wetness of the bed, A Camera on top of the Cradle for live video footage & Cry Detection Circuit to analyse Cry Patterns which eventually triggers the swinging mechanism (if required based on the range of frequency). 
All the data which is been taken from the sensors/modules will be stored in Cloud & analyzed at regular intervals. A Health Algorithm is applied to these datasets to get information about the body conditions which is helpful as any regular symptoms of a disease can be identified easily. 
An instant mobile notification will be generated if any abnormal activity is detected (something unusual OR crying of baby OR wetness due to Baby Urine) in the Android Mobile Application which has been developed. It has UI controls which include the feature of controlling the swinging mechanism of the cradle (can be turned on, turned off & can maintain the speed of swing), control for switching on the camera live footage & controls for playing the toy/projector whenever the baby cries.
